Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs) are a simple and effective means to connect multiple devices that may enter, move around, and leave at will. In the VANET, this will allow drivers to enter a VANET segment, travel from point A to point B, and then leave the VANET segment in the easiest way possible, and be able to communicate helpful information, such as traffic conditions and emergency information, like an accident or panic braking (preventing pileups).

Many situations in a VANET would make an infrastructure-based network extremely infeasible, such as the case of emergency braking when this message only matters for the split second between when the braking occurs and when the cars behind get in a pileup, and ad-hoc network would be faster point to point.

Many security issues rise as a result of wireless ad-hoc networks. In some use cases, all peers involved could be well defined and unknown or bad nodes could easily be rejected, however in the case of VANET and sometimes UWSN, it is unfeasible to attempt "hard wiring" all nodes because they come and go at will. The security issue focues on is "node reliability", meaning how well can a particular node be trusted to participate appropriately in an ad-hoc network.

In an existing UWSN, an attacker places a node in the middle. Using "flood routing" the UWSN decides the new node is part of the network. When messages begin to flow, the new node forwards the data, then sends the data again one minute later, and again one minute later, creating a flood of replay attacks for every message it receives. This would cause a old and out of date data to flow through the network, and would flood the network with unnecessary traffic. This can also be represented in an existing VANET. Replace a node with a modified vehicle with the exact same functionality of the previous node.

One way to mitigate this in a UWSN is for each node to time stamp each message. Then the node after the bad node would notice a message with an old timestamp and simply reject the message. Since UWSN networks are slow, this may require each node to have a small history of messages (or their hash) with a timestamp and check for duplicates instead of just using a timestamp. If the bad node is a little smarter and can manipulate the timestamp, then an encryption and secure hashing scheme would be required. This scheme may work in a VANET given proper key distribution. The difference in this situation is that everyone should have access to the VANET so a good key distribution system will be needed and is outside the scope of this paper.

The general public will gain a better VANET to use when car manufacturers implement conclusions from this research.
